.TH LOGBOOK-TEMPLATE 7
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fItemplate\fB.jingoo\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The output of
.BR logbook (1)
can be modified using Jingoo templates.
.SH MODELS
.BR logbook (1)
exposes the following variables that can be used in a template:
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBtitle\fR: The title of the document set from the
.BR logbook (1)
command line. Mostly intended for the \fB<title>\fR tag, but can be reused.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBentries\fR: A list of objects representing the log entries of the processed file.
It contains the following fields:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBdate\fR: The date of the entry as a string in the form \fBYYYY-MM-DD\fR.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBsummary\fR: The initial summary text block of the entry as a string which
might already have been preprocessed by a markup like markdown.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBitems\fR: A list of objects representing the entry's items. It contains the
following fields:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBtitle\fR: The title (as in heading) of the item as a string. Might already have been
preprocessed by a markup.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBtext\fR: The text block of the item as a string. Might already have been
preprocessed by a markup.
.RE
.RE
.SH SYNTAX
For information about Jingoo template syntax refer to the Jingoo documentation.
.SH EXAMPLE
A simple template is below. It uses two nested for loops to process the two given lists.
Also we disable autoescaping for the variables that can contain HTML if they have been
preprocessed using a markup like markdown.
.PP
.nf
.RS
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <title>{{ title }}</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <main>
      {% for entry in entries %}
      <article>
        <h2>{{ entry.date }}</h2>
        {% autoescape false %}
        {{ entry.summary }}
        <ul>{% for item in entry.items %}
          <li>
            {{ item.title }}
            {{ item.text }}
          </li>
          {% endfor %}
          {% endautoescape %}
        </ul>
      </article>
      {% endfor %}
    </main>
  </body>
</html>
.RE
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR logbook (1),
.BR logbook-log (7)
