.TH LOGBOOK-LOG 7
.SH NAME
\fBlog\fR \- a file format for keeping a personal log or diary
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIfile\fB.log\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
A \fBlog\fR file contains one or more \fBentries\fR which each are associated
with a specific \fBdate\fR. There shouldn't be more than one entry for a \fBdate\fR.
Every \fBentry\fR consists of the mentioned \fBdate\fR, a \fBsummary\fR and zero or
more \fBitems\fR.
.PP
Every \fBitem\fR consists of a \fBprivacy level\fR which is indicated by a preceding
symbol which determines which individuals may access this item, its \fBtitle\fR and
its \fBtext\fR.
.PP
\fBsummary\fR, \fBtitle\fR and \fBtext\fR may contain markup of any kind, as long
as it doesn't interfer with the parsing of the log format.
.SH PRIVACY LEVELS
\fBlog\fR knows three different \fBprivacy levels\fR which indicate by whom an item
may or may not be accessed:
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBpublic\fR: This privacy level, signified by a \fB+\fR, indicates that anyone may
access this item.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBsemi private\fR: This privacy level, signified by a \fB*\fR, indicates that only
trusted individuals (e. g. friends, family, ...) and the author of the log file may
access this item.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBprivate\fR: This privacy level, signified by a \fB-\fR, indicates that only the
author of the log file may access the item.
.PP
When processing a \fBlog\fR file the specified privacy levels must be respected in
order to prevent leaking private information to non-trusted individuals or
services, applications etc.
.PP
The privacy levels also double up as an indication of the level of access to
log items an individual or application has. A privacy level then means "has access
to level X and the less trustful levels":
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBpublic\fR: May only access public items.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBsemi private\fR: May access semi private and public items.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBprivate\fR: May access all items.
.PP
An example of this are the \fB\-\-private\fR, \fB\-\-semi\-private\fR and
\fB\-\-public\fR options of
.BR logbook (1).
.SH FORMAT
A \fBlog\fR file consists of multiple \fBentries\fR separated by zero or more
empty lines. It uses unix line endings. An entry has the following format.
.PP
Every \fBentry\fR is initiated with a line containing \fBdate\fR of the format \fBYYYY-MM-DD\fR
in brackets.
.PP
.nf
.RS
[YYYY-MM-DD]
.RE
.fi
.PP
This is then followed by a \fBsummary\fR which is an unindented block of text
which is terminated by any number of empty lines or a \fBitem\fR. A \fBsummary\fR
may contain any markup that doesn't interfer with the parsing of a log file.
.PP
.nf
.RS
Any number of lines as
long as
they don't contain
any empty lines. What
line breaks signify depends
on the *markup* in **markdown**
they'd be just normal spaces.
.RE
.fi
.PP
Next are zero or more \fBitems\fR. An \fBitem\fR is initiated by a \fBprivacy level\fR
indicator which is either \fB+\fR, \fB*\fR or \fB-\fR, followed by a space. For the semantic
meaning of the privacy levels see the section of the same name. After the indicator follows
the item's \fBtitle\fR on the same line that is terminated by the line break.
.PP
Next is the item's \fBtext\fR which is a text block indented using 2 spaces. Both the \fBtext\fR
and the \fBtitle\fR may contain any markup that doesn't mess with the parsing. The \fBtext\fR
block is terminated by any following item or empty lines. After parsing \fBtext\fR may contain
an empty line, however. This can be achieved by using a line which only contains 2 spaces \-
a indented empty line so to say.
.PP
.nf
.RS
+ Public Title
  Any text
  indented using 2 spaces
* Semi Private Title
  More text.


- Private Title
  New lines work as separator, too.
.RE
.fi
.PP
There may be any number of \fBentries\fR in any order,
separated by any number of empty lines.
.PP
The \fBlog\fR format used by
.BR logbook (1)
is based on a specification by Profpatsch, but it has been simplified.
The original specifications specified that item titles wouldn't be limited
to a single line, but its own block of indent level 2, and the item text
a block with indent level 4. This creates a lot of unsolvable issues when
parsing, so it has been simplified.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
[2020-05-18]
.br
Summary of the day. May
.br
span
.br
multiple lines.
.PP
+ Title of a Public Entry
.br
  Some text that also may span multiple lines, but
.br
  must be indented using 2 spaces.
.br
- Title of a Private Entry
.br
  Its title and text won't be visible to anyone but
.br
  the author. Unfortunately it can't be hidden it from
.br
  the file and this one is included in a public man page...
.PP
[2020-05-17]
.br
An entry without any items.
.PP
[2020-05-16]
.br
Another entry.
.PP
* Title of a semi-private entry.
.br
  Some text, as usual.
.br
+ ### Title of a Public entry using a markdown heading
.br
  Also the *text* may contain **markup** of any
.br
  [kind](https://github.com/sternenseemann/logbook)
.fi
.SH CREDITS
Original idea and first specification by Profpatsch.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR logbook (1),
.BR logbook-template (7)
